![](media/image1.png){width="1.5196850393700787in"
height="1.3031496062992125in"}

My Year in Industry

John Taylor

Engineer

Abstract {#abstract .ListParagraph .Fake-header}
========

This report will detail my journey as a placement student, all the way
from finding and securing my placement through to completing my year. It
will cover information about the business itself, the teams, the major
projects I've worked on and touch on many key experiences that have
contributed to an enriching year. I will explain what I've learnt
throughout the year and how the experience has shaped me as an Engineer
and even more so as a person.

Placement Details {#placement-details .ListParagraph .Fake-header}
=================

**Name:** John Taylor

**Placement Dates:** 3^rd^ July 2017 → 31^st^ June 2018 (Contract
extended until 31^st^ August)

**Job Title:** Engineer

*Placement Address*

Holiday Extras Ltd,

Newingreen,

Kent,

CT21 4JF

*Supervisor*

Luke Hansell

Dev Lead

luke.hansell\@holidayextras.com

Table of Contents {#table-of-contents .ListParagraph .Fake-header}
=================

[1 Introduction to my Year in Industry
5](#introduction-to-my-year-in-industry)

[1.1 Why Holiday Extras? 5](#why-holiday-extras)

[1.2 Journey to Holiday Extras 5](#journey-to-holiday-extras)

[1.2.1 Initial Interviews 5](#initial-interviews)

[1.2.2 Application + Interview with HX
6](#application-interview-with-hx)

[1.2.3 Offer from HX 6](#offer-from-hx)

[1.3 Holiday Extras: a brief overview
6](#holiday-extras-a-brief-overview)

[1.4 My Job Role 7](#my-job-role)

[2 Working for Holiday Extras 8](#working-for-holiday-extras)

Introduction to my Year in Industry
===================================

During the university selection process, the year in industry programmes
really stood out to me, making it easy to say that I was excited for
this year. It became one of the most pivotal factors in my decision to
turn down King's College London and come to Kent. The placement scheme
sounded so much more fleshed out and enriching here. Having this passion
before I had even made it to the year in the industry really fuelled my
anticipation for the year.

Why Holiday Extras?
-------------------

It's fair to say that before Holiday Extras came to present at the
university I had never heard of them, so what was so enticing? Whilst
it's hard to honestly be excited about selling airport parking; the
role, benefits, and emphasis they placed on their placement program
really stood out. They also told us they only source students from Kent
and that a lot of them had kept graduate positions, meaning that I'd
already be surrounded by people of similar experiences.

Their entire presentation conveyed an image of an extremely relaxed and
fun workplace with all the vibes of a start-up. They boasted about all
the awards they'd received acknowledging them as one of the best places
to work in the UK. They also had current placement students give their
stories and experiences of their placement, all of which told tales of
many learnings and great opportunities at HX.

Whilst all of this was promising I was initially reluctant to settle
into a web-based role. I wasn't completely against the idea but work
closer to the back-end had always interested me more. Due to this I
initially passed up the opportunity and only came back to apply when
applications re-opened. By that time, I had realised that the work
environment, benefits, and opportunities were too good to ignore.

Journey to Holiday Extras
-------------------------

Having come into the placement process with no previous work experience
I was at a complete fresh start without even a CV prepared. Luckily, by
the time it came to my application at HX I'd already sorted out my CV,
sent applications and even had an interview.

### Initial Interviews

The interview was with a company called SquaredUp who are a small
start-up close to my home in London. Whilst it was useful to gain
experience the process also knocked my confidence a little, they asked
some fart-assy questions that put me on the spot more than expected.
However, it also showed me that interviews are a two-way process, from
those questions alone I knew that company was too 'hippy' to be a good
fit for me.

### Application + Interview with HX

After putting in an application to HX I received an invitation to an
assessment day. This day consisted of a group task, presentation, and
individual interview. On the day I remember feeling nervous before
arriving, but the relaxed environment helped me to settle in quickly
once there.

We started with the group task which required us to plan out the
handling of travel disruption caused by snow. We had to plan an email to
customers as well design a system for the call centre to use as a means
of reporting contact with customers. At first this was a little daunting
to be working on with three unknown peers, but I quickly became
distracted in trying to make the best impression possible; engaging with
the group, conversing about ideas, and turning them into a full
solution. When it came time to present our work the calm atmosphere
helped me present confidently and I went to lunch pleased with my
performance so far.

This quiet confidence in my performance so far really helped me going
into the individual interview. In a complete contrast to my experience
with SquaredUp this seemed to go a lot smoother. I didn't feel that many
questions really put me on the spot too much and I was able to be open
about my initial reluctance to a web role. They had many re-assurances
for me that there was enough modern technology in use to keep things
interesting. This made me feel that they really understood where I was
coming from and saw that my focus was on learning as much as possible. I
appreciated what they had to offer in that regard.

I eventually left the day feeling pleased with the impression I'd given
as well as being sure that this type of environment was for me. I began
to realise how much this role would resonate with me despite my initial
feelings.

### Offer from HX

After about a month I received a phone call telling me that HX would
like to offer me the position. I accepted the role then and there
because I'd spent all of the time since the assessment day feeling sure
that it was the right fit for me.

 {#section .ListParagraph}

Holiday Extras: a brief overview
--------------------------------

Holiday Extras started its life as the Apple Booking Company (ABC) when
it was founded by Gerry Pack in 1983. It came to fruition when Gerry
noticed a gap in the Airport Hotels market, they had previously been
targeted to business travellers and never towards leisure travellers.
Initially this was achieved through a simple booking platform in
partnership with travel consultants who latched on to the idea; the new
market area provided lucrative and convenient business.

Throughout 35 years of growth and a rebranding as Holiday Extras, the
company's offerings have expanded hugely, and they now specialise in a
vast array of travel products. This includes airport parking, lounges,
insurance, car hire, resort transfers and more. Now having around 800
employees situated across offices in Kent, Germany and Bulgaria it's
fair to say the company has grown with its success.

During those early years the company strived as a platform for travel
agents to make bookings for their own clients, but April 2000 saw the
launch of the HX website. Along with it came the ability for direct
customers to make bookings. This was a large step at the time as most
travel companies were only targeting one market or the other, not both.
Nowadays over 90% of bookings come via the website with less and less
reliance on the call centre for business.

\#\#\# Should get something about awards in here somewhere? Might be in
Section \#2

My Job Role
-----------

When joining my official job title was as an 'Engineer' which kept
things open to interpretation. It was difficult to predict exactly what
that might encompass initially. However, it soon became clear why it was
left open with each team serving different purposes through different
platforms. It was clear there would be many opportunities for me to
learn across all of these different areas, platforms and codebases. I
understood why 'Web Developer' didn't truly fit the bill of this job
despite that being the main throughput.

During my time with HX I managed to gain experience across a variety of
systems and I ended up truly appreciating the fluidity of my role. Not
only did I have the opportunity to work on the front-end of the site,
but my manager actually planned my second team to be a challenging
back-end focused role. This gave me a taste of both worlds and really
helped to push my learning to a higher level, I'm thankful that my own
development was such a focal point for the company.

Working for Holiday Extras
==========================

This section will detail the structure and process of HX as well as how
I feel about my time spent interacting with it.

Firstly, to pre-face, despite the fact HX has \~800 employees there are
\~150 of us in the actual web team where I've spent all of my time.
Therefore, the majority of what I speak about will be the structure and
process of this web team as a subset of the entire team.

Team Structure
--------------

Whilst HX has a vast number of employee's they still place a large
emphasis on the web team.

Loose bibliography

<https://www.holidayextras.co.uk/about-us/company-history.html> - HX
info
